APM Agent: Add resource usage guide (#15126)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/troubleshooting/agent_apm_resource_usage.md

---
title: Agent Resource Usage by APM
kind: Documentation
---

The Agent is CPU-bound and its CPU usage is correlated with the number of spans received per second.

The Agent buffers unprocessed payloads in memory, so throttling the Agent process because of an insufficient CPU limit can lead to an out-of-memory issue.

## Detect out-of-CPU

> To monitor CPU usage and detect oncoming out-of-CPU issues, compare the [maximum CPU percentage][1] configured for the Agent to the `datadog.trace_agent.cpu_percent` metric. The `datadog.trace_agent.cpu_percent` metric is CPU usage in percentage of a core. For example, a value of `50` is half a core, or `200` is two cores. 

Reviewer: in 'terms of percentage of a core' maybe?

See the full list of [Agent APM metrics][2].

## Resource requirements

> A good indicator to calculate adequate resource limits for the Agent isthe number of spans received per second, reported in the `datadog.trace_agent.receiver.spans_received` metric.

Reviewer: there should be space between 'is' and 'the'

---

> title: APM Agent Resource Usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Agent Resource Usage by APM
```

kind: Documentation
aliases:
  - /tracing/troubleshooting/agent_apm_resource_usage
---

## How the APM Agent works

The APM Agent is CPU-bound and its CPU usage is correlated with the number of spans received per second.

> The APM Agent is designed to buffer unprocessed payloads in memory to avoid data loss. Consequently, throttling the Agent process because of an insufficient CPU limit can lead to out of memory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The APM Agent is designed to buffer unprocessed payloads in memory to avoid data loss. Consequently, throttling the Agent process because of an insufficient CPU limit can lead to an out of memory issue.
```

## Detect out-of-CPU

The following metric emitted by APM Agent can help detect out-of-CPU:
- `datadog.trace_agent.cpu_percent`: CPU usage (in percentage of a core), for example, 50 (half a core), 200 (two cores). It can be compared to the [maximum CPU percentage][1] configured for the APM Agent.

See the full list of [APM Agent metrics][1].

[1]: /tracing/send_traces/agent-apm-metrics/

## Resource requirements

> The number of spans received per second is a good indicator to figure out adequate resource limits for the APM Agent.
> The APM Agent emits this metric `datadog.trace_agent.receiver.spans_received`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A good indicator to calculate adequate resource limits for the Agent isthe number of spans received per second, reported in the `datadog.trace_agent.receiver.spans_received` metric.
```

> Based on its value, you can follow the table below to choose adequate CPU and Memory limits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on that metric's value, follow the table below to choose adequate CPU and memory limits:
```

> | Spans/s  | CPU (core)   | Memory (MB)  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Spans per second  | CPU (core)   | Memory (MB)  |
```

|----------|--------------|--------------|

> | 2k       | 0.05         | 35           |
> | 11k      | 0.2          | 40           |
> | 32k      | 0.6          | 60           |
> | 58k      | 1            | 70           |
> | 130k     | 2            | 130          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 2000       | 0.05         | 35           |
| 11 000      | 0.2          | 40           |
| 32 000      | 0.6          | 60           |
| 58 000      | 1            | 70           |
| 130 000     | 2            | 130          |
```

---
title: APM Agent Resource Usage
kind: Documentation
aliases:
  - /tracing/troubleshooting/agent_apm_resource_usage
---

## How the APM Agent works

The APM Agent is CPU-bound and its CPU usage is correlated with the number of spans received per second.

The APM Agent is designed to buffer unprocessed payloads in memory to avoid data loss. Consequently, throttling the Agent process because of an insufficient CPU limit can lead to out of memory.

## Detect out-of-CPU

The following metric emitted by APM Agent can help detect out-of-CPU:
- `datadog.trace_agent.cpu_percent`: CPU usage (in decicores), for example, 50 (half a core), 200 (two cores). It can be compared to the [maximum CPU percentage][1] configured for the APM Agent.

See the full list of [APM Agent metrics][2].

> **Note:** If you disabled the [maximum CPU percentage for APM][1] in containerized environments, you can use the following metrics: `container.cpu.usage`, `container.cpu.limit` and `container.cpu.throttled`.

Reviewer 4: What do you mean by this? This metric is reported regardless of that setting. You can remove this note.

---
title: APM Agent Resource Usage
kind: Documentation
aliases:
  - /tracing/troubleshooting/agent_apm_resource_usage
---

## How the APM Agent works

The APM Agent is CPU-bound and its CPU usage is correlated with the number of spans received per second.

The APM Agent is designed to buffer unprocessed payloads in memory to avoid data loss. Consequently, throttling the Agent process because of an insufficient CPU limit can lead to out of memory.

## Detect out-of-CPU

The following metrics emitted by APM Agent can help detect out-of-CPU:

> - `datadog.trace_agent.cpu_percent`: CPU usage (in cores), for example, 50 (half a core), 200 (two cores). It can be compared to the [maximum CPU percentage][1] configured for the APM Agent.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `datadog.trace_agent.cpu_percent`: CPU usage (in decicores), for example, 50 (half a core), 200 (two cores). It can be compared to the [maximum CPU percentage][1] configured for the APM Agent.
```

Author: Nice catch! That was a copy/paste from [here](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/content/en/tracing/troubleshooting/agent_apm_metrics.md), I'll fix both of them.

Author: Done!

> - `datadog.trace_agent.ratelimit`: If lower than 1, it means payloads are being refused due to high resource usage (cpu or memory).

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this needs to be corrected a bit. Payloads are not being refused due to high resource usage. This has historically been a great source of confusion to customers and I wouldn't want them to think "why are my payloads being rate limited due to high memory usage when the APM agent is using 500 MB of memory but my machine has 2 GB". This can happen when the default value of `DD_APM_MAX_MEMORY=500` in non-Kubernetes environments.

I'd rather say something like:
```suggestion
- `datadog.trace_agent.ratelimit`: If lower than 1, payloads are being rejected due to resource usage being higher than the Datadog Agent's [configured rate limits][1] allow.
```

Reviewer 4: P.S. (sorry for the multiple comments) I don't think that this metric goes into the "detect out of CPU" list, since it helps with figuring out if configuration limits are reached. There may still be plenty CPU on the machine.

Author: Good point, thanks for clarifying! In this case I think it's best to not mention `datadog.trace_agent.ratelimit` at all on this page, wdyt?

Reviewer 4: If this page is meant to address the situation where customers keep reporting OOM to later find out it's because of out-of-CPU in fact, then I agree. Otherwise, it could be a separate section. But yes they are different things.

Author: Alright then, I'll remove it. Thanks for the feedback!

See the full list of [APM Agent metrics][2].

**Note:** If you disabled the [maximum CPU percentage for APM][1] in containerized environments, you can use the following metrics: `container.cpu.usage`, `container.cpu.limit` and `container.cpu.throttled`.

> [1]: /tracing/troubleshooting/agent_rate_limits/#maximum-cpu-percentage

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[1]: /tracing/troubleshooting/agent_rate_limits/#maximum-memory-limit
```
I would update like this so that it includes both the CPU and memory limits, or add this separately.
